an audience of business owners ask me
questions for four hours here are the
best moments uh I own a company that uh
basically Scoops up dog sweet uh I love
these typ of business no one cancels
yeah we got we're doing about 2 million
a year and I want to get to 10 million a
year as fast as possible uh poo poo The
Profit sorry go
ahead's
uh and our business it's it's somewhat
seasonal as far as the acquisition goes
we basically double every first quarter
of the year when all the St is melting
off and everything uh but through the
rest of the year I want to uh start
looking at acquiring other dog companies
basically
uh uh so my question is when you're
going to acquire other companies how do
you integrate it with your company to uh
basically
not let your money on fire and to
maximize the Enterprise value for an
investor so obviously the the is going
to be a huge and how you structure the
de um are you keeping the operators on
afterwards or no uh probably depend on
the uh on the business and the
deal I would have some sort of big
incentive for them to
have bonus basically post integration
and so that way they're going to be
highly incentivized to you know you
put hey like we're in this together if
this doesn't work then you're not going
to get paid um and I think that that's
that fair I think it's pretty fair um
for especially a small bus um because
I'm assuming
the be somewhere in there what were we
saying poo poo platter um profit yes so
making making the deal structure
um I would try and separate the business
out into what what the components are
right so it's like you have the routes
that they do for you know poop poop
pickups or whatever right so you have
you've got the customer list then you've
got the the people who do the poop
scooping um and then you probably have
some sort of administrative stuff I
don't know if they if sales are
marketing I'm guessing you're pretty
good at sales and marketing so you don't
need their sales and marketing you're
trying to buy the book of business yeah
so um it's just I think it's you'll
probably just end up having an sop for
each of the core components and there's
a really good book um for you no one
else needs to read this uh it's called
Uh how to make a few billion dollars um
the guy just did three rollups over his
whole career and each rollup he sold for
like 10 billion um and so it's really
just understanding that all the business
have components and you basically just
have a massive checklist that you do
when you integrate a business it's like
that's literally it it's just the
world's longest checklist and every
single integration you do you get a
little bit better and you add things to
the checklist until eventually like
you've covered every single thing and
you can go faster and faster and if have
you studied Waste Management yeah yeah I
mean because literally I mean yeah you
should uh I mean that was literally how
they grow so finding routes I mean I
would study everything about that
business um but it's really just
breaking down the components and having
Sops that are associate with them uh do
you need to Rebrand the businesses you
buy under the same brand to make it more
attract acve to investors do that not
really matter as much
um I would probably Rebrand it if you
really want to do the big play you'll
get a premium for it yeah thank you yeah
you bet hi hello so my question is
regarding emails email marketing and the
thing is that we currently have a quite
good leak magnet okay which is free and
which is good but the problem is that as
soon as they opt in and start to get
emails from us it's only that can about
an open rate from 20 to 25% something
how can I push that
up um so two things one is how good the
lead magnet is so I know to People Want
it but the question is how good is it
once they get it fundamentally the value
deliver always reinforces them consuming
more value and so like you grow an
audience by delivering more to them than
it costs them to consume it and so they
make a good trade on their time compared
to other trades on their time from other
people they could be consuming
information from I mean fundamentally
that's how I built my brand right and so
if you think about the lead mag as a
microcosm of that then that's that the
other obvious one is just that you need
to split test uh subject heads are you
split testing subject heads on a regular
basis for the email
flop I'm not exactly sure because I'm
not in charge for the email marketing
I'll bet you you're
not so yeah I mean it's just it's so
like a lot of this stuff just for for
everyone is
like I I get asked sometimes a lot of
questions that can be that can be solved
with a test and not like I can tell you
the answer and so when we want to figure
out pricing we test pricing you guys saw
a up yesterday from it right so
like we test pricing um and that's how
we that's how we do things like we just
try it out and we see and so we do the
same thing we just like see if this
headline works better and then we see
like we run tests constantly and I would
say that's probably one of the things
that has worked really well for us and
what I would warn you against is like
you're on the like if there's a pendulum
of testing right there's like we test
everything all the time and there's like
we haven't tested things what's a test
um like there's kind of a sweet spot
because whenever you do test there's a
cost of testing which is guaranteed you
have a cost of change like you have mess
ups that happen right um and so those
are guaranteed but the upside of the
test isn't guaranteed and so you want to
make sure that the tests that you're
doing are worth it and so for you the
cost of the test doing a split you know
split test on a subject ad is probably
not that much if you want to test a
change in your offer it costs more you
got to retrain the team you got to
retrain the Fulfillment there's more
things that have to happen so there's
kind of like low cost tests and high
cost tests and not all high cost tests
are going to have high output and
sometimes low cost tests have massive
output and so you want to kind of order
these from like okay what is the lowest
likelihood test that could have the most
output and you just literally order them
you're like all right well let's grab
one off of here and we do them in that
orderes that make sense yeah so we
literally have a big list it's like Alex
ideas
where do I find for my stuff right and
so we so I because so this is to your
add question that you had earlier like I
highly recommend doing this it took me a
long time to learn for like for Lea and
I to figure out this Dynamic was that I
had about one new idea for our business
per day and Lea's like we can do like
one a quarter and so I was like what do
I do with all these extras and so I
would just bottle them up and just go
nuts right so instead I did two things
one is that I started making content to
get ideas out get my creative juices out
so it's kind of an outlet so you guys
are like the product of a creative
outlet for me and the other thing is
having my big list of ideas and it's
literally called Alex's big list of
ideas and I just have this Mass because
you're lose it so you write it down and
then next week like you know actually
wasn't that good of an idea but I was
about to change the whole company and
now I I I actually think it's F right
and so um by having that list it kind of
gives you a little bit of space between
them because you're always emotionally
invested in it when it's your idea it's
fresh and so giving it some time to to
settle it allows me to look at these and
be like no even with like a month of
sleep this is a good idea we should test
this one and it's worth the worth the
cost and so that's how I that's how I
get some of that Creative Juice out and
I make sure that the test we have the
highest return so in regards to email
marketing you just think of a nice fancy
title and then you just write it down
and sleep some dayses about so um
honestly like the first thing I would do
is just Google like split test headlines
for subjects okay yeah and then you'd
have probably you could probably find
like 500 and be like okay which of these
apply to my Niche all right perfect
thank you that box yes sir hey man yes
hello I have a SAS company it's an
e-commerce fulfillment platform that
specializes in Drop Shipping fulfillment
cool we have super super high churn 33%
because a month a month yeah because 99%
of our traffic is a new business that
they're trying to start an e-commerce
business we've done surveying market
research like I'm going to make your day
but keep going okay the the their their
issue is they need to find which
products they want to sell and drive
profitable traffic which just can't
figure out how to operationalize that
yeah so you have something called
structural turn um which is something to
not lose sleepover okay thank you like
Shopify has more turn than you do yeah
so it's just it's the nature of getting
into the vsnb space so vsnb is very
small business owner SB and know
mid-market then you go up to Enterprise
um but you're just you're in the vsnb
space which is almost the same as
consumer just the game yeah but the good
news is there's a gazillion of them and
so that's the trade it's an infinite
Market almost yeah yeah and so like if
you think about what shopify's business
model is it's like I mean it's in your
space right is that they have a very
small fee for people to start and then
they get their upside from payments for
the people who self self- select as the
you know highest and best users and so
they make money on people who make no
money and then once those people make a
lot of money they make more money with
them and so it's kind of like a
dual-sided uh monetization structure and
so that might be something that I would
explore yeah we're looking into payments
but I'm trying to figure like I thought
that was the constraint my business but
churn
yeah um it's I mean 3% a month for vmb
is not bad 33% oh 33 yeah yeah that's
that's worse than three yeah um super
high it's 11 times worse than three um I
was like dude you're doing fine I love I
was like I'm make your day I love three
doing great um yeah got it yeah so I
I'll bet you can get that probably
closer down to 10 yeah um I would look
at with shop I think they're like at 10
but like it's it's high yeah um and so
everything so my recommendation because
obviously we have school and so I'm I'm
in the vsnb world um is you want to
think about improving the product
through elimination rather than addition
so it's how can I eliminate things from
the product that people aren't using
what are the thing like the number one
reason people cancel is overwhelming you
get distracted overwhelmed there too
many things they don't know what to do
and so it's really trying to pull this
this goes for service too by the way um
trying to pull as many things out and
like you can introduce things later that
they don't necessarily need yet so it's
really just thinking what is the one
thing I need them to do right now and
then until they do that I'm not going to
show them something else and then once
they have done that I will show them the
next thing to do it's just trying to
keep as little friction assumingly
possible and that like the 100 golden
BBS it's no there's no Silver Bullet
it's it's just looking at right now like
you probably have a DAT a guy hopefully
on the team that can run like a
regression analysis on on the cohorts
yeah and so if you do you know what your
activation points are yeah we know the
golden path okay yeah well then just I
mean literally all resources go towards
that thing like if that is the
constraint of the business then I don't
care about getting new members I don't I
mean like I care about them in so far as
we need to test the cohort out to make
sure that it's working but I'm not doing
any growth initiatives I'm not doing any
new features everything that we're
focused on is how do we get more people
to that activation point and I don't
care about anything else that's it and
so if the activation point is right then
will go down if the activation point
that you have is wrong then you have to
find what it really is yeah good day
Alex how you doing hello hello my name
is Josh I own a business in Australia
and we help universities Australia
Australia and we help universities or
Unis in Australia keep their students
and keep them happy so they don't drop
out so your college video was really
applicable to us I think the Australian
government was listening to you because
they introduced a policy this year I
know I came to tell that new in person I
know uh they introduced policy where
Australian Unis to receive funding have
to dramatically increase the amount of
low socioeconomic students the one that
benefits most from uni which is cool and
then they released a policy that said
four essentially $60 million of student
funding has to go to clubs societies
fraternities to support those students
so eight years ago I started a business
on the premise that uni should really
invest in supporting students because it
keeps their customers there and that's
good for UNIS and good for students so I
have a woman in a $60 million red dress
okay and my question is normally I'm
selling to a student engagement
professional it's their first
professional job now I'm selling to
their boss's boss okay so I have a a
value equation basically for student
retention that we've created this
instrument which shows them why students
drop out where their Dropout rates are
benchmarks it exactly what to do sounds
good and then our training Solutions are
the answer to that right but I've spent
eight years selling training Solutions
not data and Analysis I'm not used to
selling to the CEO I'm used to selling
to their employees say again they just
want the data they just want the data
the higher up you go just for everybody
for Enterprise sales the the more money
the person makes the more they don't
care about the narrative yeah that's
just been my experience now of course
stories sell and there's like sure you
want to have a you know a meta narrative
if you want but like until you show them
the math behind it which is like what is
your return on this and that's what they
want so my problem was my churn I'd lose
maybe 20% per year the ones who'd hire
me for training the students go it's the
best training been to it's amazing but
they wouldn't be able to tell their boss
or their boss's boss the data to prove
that it was good for retention well you
have to track the data you have to track
it yeah but they would never give me
that data so I couldn't ultimately prove
you have to make a contingent like you
have to do it you have to do it you have
to do it right in order to work with us
like we have a proprietary technology
and it feeds off of data and in order
for us to make your product or solution
better we have to get this data so we
can Implement in real time and so right
now we're start with the vanilla version
yeah but in two years this is going to
be the Super tailored version to your
University so we know that you know all
universities benefit from these five
things but there's usually five to 10
other things that are we will learn from
this data so you have to do it so these
are the three things that we'll do to
make it easier for you to actually get
this data back to us so we can help you
make more money yeah can I ask you one
quick followup on that the tool that we
do that now is a $30,000 product per
year on subscription that uh
universities have started to buy before
that our LTV of training was
$34,000 okay so the tool that justifies
the $34,000 training is worth $30,000
sure so that's what I'm wondering do I
focus more on selling that and then sell
s for 60 if you want and just say it
comes with these two things it comes
with the training sure and pivot towards
that yeah I mean fundamentally like
those are components I don't even see
them as that important like the only
thing that matters to them is the
likelihood that they get their customers
to stay and pay longer and renew year
after year after year Y and so how we
get there matters just really little and
you know this from the sales side I
think you're just into weeds right now
because you're you know you have your
entrepreneur head on and you're here but
like yeah if you're a customer I don't
care if we're going to be doing keto or
cutting my calories like I just want to
be able to fit in my high school jeans
yeah so just tell me how there that's it
cool man appreciate you he bet I a brick
and mortar franchise owner um I own five
indoor golf simulator locations across
the country cool I've got um fdds in
place to scale out to 12 are you
franchise or or franchise franchisees
okay got it so so um one of the
constraints that I experience every year
is um was predominantly a seasonal
business so when they started in the
Midwest and when it's cold and people
can't get out to the golf courses they
come indoors and play but the constraint
is in the summer time my utilization
just drops right off the table and I'm
trying to push forward based on some
some information I got from customers
about what they really like about the
place it's like you know time in time to
play a game is much shorter indoors the
weather's always consistent a lot of
things like that and I'm trying to push
my branding in that direction so I can
address some of that low utilization in
the offseason do you have any ideas that
you could offer on that yeah I mean
obviously I'm here in Vegas and I'd be
like want to do 18 in under 30 minutes
and it be air conditioned with a drink
in hand like I I mean you could sell me
right yeah I just like air conditioning
in general but um but yeah I mean I
think I think that's the because I was
thinking was like all right because a
lot like long care guys have the same
issue right it's like when it's the
winter for them it's the opposite issues
like so then they have to get into
snowplowing they call it the on season
and offseason Terrible by the way if
you're in a seasonal business don't call
it the offseason because then everyone's
gonna treat it like the offseason um you
just lose money the whole time um but I
think that I think that that perspective
um makes sense like the the benefits of
indoor now I would bet that the places
where it's hottest in the summer um
might benefit the most from that it's
like get out of the summer heat
and like because you have a time
component and you have a comfort
component which I actually think are
pretty strong um and so I would just be
leading with those because everyone
faster and everyone wants things to be
easier and so you do both so just focus
my branding and and sales in that
direction yeah thank you sir yeah and I
was instead of branding I just say this
the messaging yeah just from a
delineation yeah um I'm Millie I run a
math tutoring company with my partner
Christian a what a what training company
math tutoring math tutoring math very
sexy um so right now we're really really
small our offer is good our sales
process is good we know that we just
need to do more of it which is fine um
and we're hiring people to help us with
the sales and the Fulfillment what I
want to know is you've built a brand
where all of your employees seem to have
that same let's get done attitude
as you do how do you instill that within
your team so that they know like let's
get this done you get rid of people who
don't have that
okay and then the only people who are
left are people who are that and then
when you bring someone else who's new
and they're like I don't think they have
it you're like I think you're right we
let them
go simple yeah it's the hard thing it's
like that girl that's back home that you
know that isn't that good you need to
let her go and then you have to do more
interviews and then pick somebody and
probably be wrong and do it again until
eventually build the culture based on
those values and you just want to get
through that as fast as you can because
fundamentally if you're scaling service
you're scaling culture and training if
you're SC scaling a service business
yeah so it's going to be those values
and how how good you are at giving
someone base skills and so if you think
about um really in any kind of role how
vague you can be with your directives is
directly proportional to how skilled
someone is in a given domain and so if
you have people that you're like I
literally have to tell her to turn on
the computer then this person has such
low based skills I think that you can
teach anyone anything I do fundamentally
believe that the question is just as a
business owner is it worth it and so
it's like I do think I could change you
from being inconsistent to consistent
it's just how long will that take me and
are there other people who I can get
better Returns on my time with and so
fundamentally just think about it like
that is how much training will I have to
introduce to this person now if you have
a service business that's a small as a
brick and mortar uh no it's online well
regardless you your business is going to
be also like the training components
that like you you have culture anding
the culture is what you choose to
tolerate internally but the training is
going be how good like you're good at
teaching math you have to think about
how good you are at teaching people to
teach math
and teaching people to do every other
skill that's associated with teaching
math because I'll bet you there's plenty
of people who are decent at math who
suck at teaching math and even worse at
talking to people yes right so sometimes
you might have to like do a little bit
of Dale Carnegie which is like okay so
when someone walks in you greet them
with a smile here's how you greet people
I'm dead serious like this is like
there's a reason Chick-fil-A if you're
here in the states is what it is it's
like they teach people how to
people yeah awesome thank you bet that's
going to be the differentiator that's
what's going to take you to the next
level uh I want to Medical Spa with my
wife yeah and uh so love Med Spas we
offer a ton of services anti-aging
Services the most popular ones are the
least profitable ones um so trying to
determine strategy should we Market the
ones that are most popular try to get
people in more and then look to upsell
because the higher margin ones I mean
you're talking like a 10 to 15x
difference in Revenue so I'm just trying
to determine do we Market more General
come on in we'll give you a year plan or
just Market the Baseline one come in and
then just try to upsell after that this
is a great question and it probably
affects a lot of people
here it is a math question so you can
solve this and actually know what the
right answer is and so I'll just give
you an example so let's say um Botox is
what people come in for for example all
right so what how much botox cost what's
your gross profit on Botox uh so after
we factor in all of our Mak cost like
$58 per Tre okay so you make 58 bucks
okay per Botox so what does it cost to
get somebody in the door uh right now
our CAC is 202 okay so 202 great now
what percentage of these people can you
sell into ice you know the cool
sculpting or whatever else uh we're
about like 40% okay so 40% of those
people and what's the average ticket of
the thing they buy or gross profit of
the thing they buy afterwards
uh like $1,300 okay
so whatever this is that's uh 400 520 so
520 plus 58 so it's this times this
right is
578 okay so this is path
one now if you mark it straight for this
thing what's
C uh just overall I don't know ual per
surface line over okay so if you
basically so to answer the question you
just promote this up front see what CAC
is and so here if you've got 202 to uh
578 you you're like just under 3 to one
right and so you're you're feeling it
right now I'm guessing you're like I
just need this to be bigger right and so
um I think this upsell efficiency is
pretty good to be honest with you um now
this you might be able to work on
because is I would bet that this can get
expanded to like 5 or 6,000 and then
that would probably make all the
difference in the world and so in terms
of Med Spa that I that we like because
we i l lik MedSpa stuff and so I was
like all right let's just buy a chain
and then you can get stuff for free to
save me money anyways
so um uh but I I think I think this is
actually probably where the deficiency
is I actually don't know if it's like
200 bucks is fine um especially like
that's what it cost to get somebody for
a gym membership and like you know right
like and that's a way lower LTV than
this so This actually feels like the
this actually feels like the problem to
me is that and the conversion is okay I
think you might just need to see if you
can sell bigger bundles and you might
want to consider do you have financing
yes so you have third party third party
or in-house third party huh okay then
you might I think you just need to I
think the I think you probably need to
so you probably have a sales process you
in terms of how you're offering the main
thing and so I would consider wait till
the next book comes out you're going to
love it um uh doing something called
like a menu close and so you sell the
vacation and say like okay if you were
to look like a goddess these are all the
things you need and then everything they
cross off they just look uglier and
older and so they're like it's like okay
just look a little bit ugli a little
older we can cross that off though no
worries right hahaa okay and
so and so you can start there though and
it's just like okay because I'd rather
start at ideal and then just try and
figure out a way to make it work with
their budget than try and just get a
sale if that makes sense so I'm going to
bet that this is the problem if you want
you could try and Market this directly
and then then you'd have I guess 100% of
people that would go into this because
like if you go to acquire customers
let's say let's say you you cire these
people for
$300 then it would make more sense to
Market that as the front end my guess
though is that you just need to boost
this guy because this is fine okay thank
yeah you bet I mean I've heard of some
men spots paying 200 bucks a lead so so
using your delivery Cube as an example
in LTV the T ratio when you're thinking
about uh modifying components of your
offer that are maybe fairely fulfillment
intensive uh where you have maybe a
unicorn or keyman risk how are you uh
massaging that how are you thinking
about this problem knowing that okay I
can't have the unir keyman risk I want
to increase LTV for my customers but my
customers really like this thing so I
think like oneone support gym
launch you have to so whenever you get
into keyman risk in general just for
everybody you it's what makes things
rare is combinations what makes them
commoditized is breaking into
chunks and so if someone's an
exceptional painter it's because they
can
combine color and movement and whatever
you know like I don't know painting but
I'm sure there's other components of
painting and so and so within the
support component there's probably three
or four things that this person does
very well and so you just chunk it down
right it's kind of like the example I
gave yesterday is like how do you
replace Alex in this business for
delivery like I was keyman well I wasn't
going to expect somebody to be better at
being Alex than me so I was like but I
can find somebody who's really good at
phone sales who's really good at phone
sales and they're just as good as I am
now they're not going to be also as good
at retention and strategy and ads but
they can be just as good at that and
then I find somebody else who's really
good at ads I'm like he's just as good
as me at ads he's just not good at all
the other stuff and so fundamentally
like when you scale in a company that is
how you replace keyman risk it's
chopping the unicorns hornof and saying
okay I can find a rhinoceros and you're
like okay now I just need a horse and I
need some you know fireflies to get the
glitter and there we go it took three
people to you know replace my unicorn
with things that are more readily
available and so you just chunk down
what the skills that this one person has
into component parts and then you can
teach those component parts much more
easily so it takes the mysticism out of
it does that make sense yeah I was
thinking in terms of the so let's say
you have like Zoom Community Learning
Management System and the community is
becoming the Intensive part I'm not
doing the Fulfillment of a director of
Education who still could out the UN
but we need to eventually for
scalability purposes one thing I talked
about Neil is maybe moving people on
like more of a we already do zooms but
doing more zooms instead of one to one
Community interaction or something this
so more Su you need to change the offer
from 101 to
semi-private it is semi-private already
but there tends to be a time intensive
concurent of like reviewing specific
case studies that that Mak sense so
either so here's okay so I'm gonna I
will tell you a story to answer
hopefully answer your question so I had
so my first ever gym model um I tweaked
a couple times and then I got it right
and I had this setup where people would
do six weeks of weight loss and kind of
like more high-intensity training
there's a point to this and six weeks of
like weights to tone so it's like burn
and tone I this is commercialized for
Mass market for those of you who are in
the fitness space just breathe all right
and so what ended up happening is that
my sessions got so full that I was like
shoot I should change how I'm doing
delivery because I can't fit any more
people in my gym which was the wrong
solution I had found something that
everyone actually liked and so
what I should have done was just more of
that and so you're in a situation where
you're like how do I scale delivery more
I don't think you're delivery is
unscalable you just need more people to
do that thing that people like and so
either do you have margin to support
it I could probably swing that in terms
of just reallocating some of our expens
well if the answer is not really then
it's a you're mispriced not necessarily
need to change what you're like so
basically either I can either charge
more to increase LTV and continue the
service or adjust the service yes I will
say it's harder to find something that
everyone really likes then it is to just
change the
price so if you have something that
everyone really loves then you probably
can support a price
change and so I want to make sure you're
solving the right problem
like sure you can go from semi-private
to group but that might lose all of the
value and then if you charge the same
thing now you have your price to value
discrepencies out of whack so what I did
this was the mistake is I took my
sessions and I shortened them so I could
fit more sessions in and by doing that I
destroyed the thing that
worked so don't do
that product Market fit is much harder
to find than
pricing next one that hopefully applied
to somebody else here so you've G over a
lot of your successes and failures what
was that and failures go ahead yeah and
and so my question is more about your
kind of protecting your mental health
and your ability with these extreme
emotions because I've gone through both
exits and acquisition the last two years
yeah and I've just never been more
miserable main reason I'm here okay is
just either getting resources or
connections I'm just wondering how
you've handled when you had those major
losses when you've lost everything or
when you've kind of had that failures
face you in the face and also if you
ever view an acquisition as a loss of
community sure how do you protect
yourself so I will not spend a long time
on this um because it gets into a very
he chunked up version of reality which
is just like I believe that when I die
within 6 months no one will give a
and so the fact that no one will care 6
months after I'm dead for the most
significant life event that I have which
is that I am no longer alive it makes a
lot of the other stuff not matter that
much and so I also know that when I was
poor and I had nothing I was about as
happy as I am now and so if I was just
as happy then as I am now then I could
go all the way back there and basically
being in the same thing and I think in
some ways when I really play it out I
get just as excited about the idea of
having the comeback story now I'm going
to try to not do that but if I did it I
would get into the state that I think
that I'd be like this is going to be my
thing and so like a lot of times the
fears we have are catastrophized and so
I like I want to have this like of the
many list of books I have this big
document of like Alex's list of books
that he will someday write um but one of
them is play it out and so a thing that
I say a lot on quarterly and strategics
is like let's play it out like what
happens next what happens next what
happens next and so like what actually
happens next is not that bad it's just
the idea of it that seems very bad I
mean has this quote that's the fear is a
mile wide an inch deep it's like you
take a step onto it and you're like oh
this isn't that big of a deal like the
worst case is I moved back with my well
actually you know I kind of like my
parents and you know homecook meal is
not so bad you know I'm only going to
see them for 10 more years before
they're just old as anyways so you
know it could be a blessing in disguise
and like there's a lot of research
that's been done on like people who
become paralyzed and within like 3 to 6
months they return to the exact same
Baseline of subjective well-being as
they were when they had all their Limbs
and so as much as that's a terrible
thing that could occur losing money is
probably a lot less bad than losing
Limbs and if it happened to them and
they're just about as happy now as they
were 6 months
earlier I just genuine like Leela and I
are sit on opposite polls like I
struggle to care she cares so much and
that's how we Yin and yangang in
business is that she'll get stressed and
I'll be like we can die no one will
care and like when you zoom out you're
like oh there's the world and like I'm a
monkey on a little thing again this is a
worldview thing some people don't agree
with this and I had I've had people get
really upset about it so that's how I
deal with it and so for me I just don't
have really big Stakes because I just
don't think anyone
cares that's all like the idea that
everyone is watching just isn't I run
Dental CL and our USB is single visit
full mouth weh have okay so like veneers
and all that yeah got it cool but it's a
single transaction and that my LTV is
over so I don't have redention okay I
understood what I have to do since
yesterday and the r table this morning
but I have to understand from you if you
can advise me on do I have to do a big
upell after no no so think about it this
way so um one of the first jobs I had
was at a fur coat dealer and so you're
selling fur coats so once now mind you
he can sell more than one coat you can't
sell more than one mouth but um you
probably can't every 10 years but let's
not get into that so um what he realized
because he was fourth generation so they
had to like figure out the business
model over you know more than a hundred
years was that he invented summer
storage and so the idea was okay how do
we get these people who bought these
$5,000 jackets to like come back because
you know big $5,000 coat for the average
consumer that was buying it it's
actually an aspirational purchase so a
lot of people think luxury is only for
rich people but 90% of buyers are
actually poor people who want to look
rich fun fact um and so what they found
out was well if we get people to come
back regularly for other stuff they're
more likely to buy more frequently right
and so what you need is insurance so
when you when someone buys something
very expensive what you do is you charge
5 to 10% of the total purchase price for
insurance now I say insurance with
quotes here but like it's hey you spent
20 grand on your mouth spend a th000
bucks a year to keep
it right keep yeah to keep it looking
nice because I can double how long these
teeth are going to last if you go into
our maintenance program and then you
have this long-term care literally
probably be called long-term care um for
your mouth and then that way you can
extend the ROI on the investment that
you made do you think it's better if I
do it after the the single sale or
between the after after so sell the 20
then they have the mirror in front of
them and they're like oh my God and
you're like right you don't want this to
go away because this could go away and
only for 5% of the thing you just like,
bucks a year will keep it looking nice
and they just spent 20 they're not going
to give a it's like whatever thank
you very much first thanks for
everything you man we in the position
where we have a couple offers on the
table to exit a couple of
Lois um it's lifechanging money but we
believe if we stuck around for two to
three more years it could be like extra
lifechanging money sure so how would you
look at this decision and decide when's
the right time to one of the hardest
decisions in business it's a very
personal question and it comes down and
the nice thing is that you have have you
have all of the information to make the
decision so on one hand you have your
personal goals which is like this is the
amount of money that I said I would be
willing to part you know part ways with
this this is what I started whatever um
on the other hand you also understand
how reliable your businesses if you feel
like the business has a good leadership
team in place you have plenty of room to
expand in the market the infrastructure
is you know secure the revenue that you
keep you have high Revenue do you have
what's your Revenue retention annually
so our uh revenue is about
6.1 this year and our evida is around 2
three what's Revenue retention what
percentage of that Revenue came from the
year before it's all for one time sales
so we don't have re Curr or one of the
things we
add yeah so you're in you're in like the
devil's gamid right now um and so like
you're getting an offer uh which is
great on something that could also be
gone tomorrow with an ad account shut
down or whatever right I don't know how
you get customers but I'm just assuming
is it ads okay and so like there so it
this is a purely risk this is a risk
assessment is if you were like for sure
we're going to be able to grow then
don't sell if you're like I don't know
if we're going to be able if we're going
to grow from here then sell and so like
only you can
know that and I'd say the second like
question one b and this is a really big
one that I think is underrated is what
are you going to do after and so I have
friends who've exited and there's
basically like two camps there's exit
and don't have a plan and exit and know
exactly what you're going to do and
these guys huge massive crisis of
meaning these guys they just get right
back to work and um having looked at
both of those like the day after I sold
gym launch I started acquisition and
that like literally the next day um and
I'm very happy that I did that um I
think having a lot of time and a lot of
money and nothing to do bad combo for
entrepreneurs personal personal opinion
so if you are going to sell have a very
clear idea what you're going to do
next
then no that's I mean this is real this
is like a real life decision and so um I
don't know what the what the
life-changing money that they're
offering is if someone's offering you
know 10 times botom line for something
that has onetime transactions and it's
all cash like terms of the deal matter
it's all cash you can walk away then
yeah maybe not a bad deal if it's you
know seller finance you consult back for
you know a year or two years um and
they're buying you know
51% um but you're expected to work for
the next however many years then you
basically have a job either way in which
case you're like th okay this is the
frame you can think of how will my daily
Behavior change
if what you do every day doesn't change
then why sell it which is why for me the
terms of my sale were like I will stop
working the day I get this check and if
you can't do that then I will not sign
the deal yeah ours is like we're we're
out out uh once we sign
okay's options
of majority of the money up front a
little bit of seller financing a little
bit than now we're out well yeah so I
mean this is a purely personal decision
I won't take too much more time on it
but like it's a risk decision which risk
is purely personal it's like do you want
to put it all on bitcoin you could it's
just purely personal can you just tell
us to sell
[Laughter]
it you know sometimes it's like you flip
the coin and then you uh when it's in
the air you decide what you want to do I
think it's a terrible way to make
decisions but it works for some people
um but no I I deliberate about this
actually on my YouTube channel I have a
46 minute video that has like seven
views on it because it's the entire
decision- making process around why I
sold and it's like two years ago maybe
three years ago it's a really long video
like we watch that and that's how we
backed out of our first
off well good I'm glad it it served you
but now I mean now you got a much better
offer so it just comes down to how risky
is it that because the thing is is
businesses and this is one you can write
down businesses will always go up in
value until the day they don't and then
they're worth
nothing so a business that grows will
always be worth more even a business
that maintains is worth more the track
record they've been consistent but the
day the business goes down no one
touches
it so that's the that's the knife's edge
longer you keep it the more valuable it
is my name's Rick I'm owner looking to
scale my La sure and I've identifi value
today identifi to
constraints one is the marketing is all
outside agencies and I don't really know
a lot about it so I want to bring that
in and also I think I need to start
hiring higher level talent to start
basically unicorn parts of what I do y
and we are I guess another con would be
we are a cash flow intense is um
contrain yeah
so at what point I guess do you put it
all together what do you think is the
better route to go if you have to do one
or the other is it the one that attorney
train attorne I think both are six-month
Endeavors if I'm just
guessing recruit and train top talent or
build an in-house marketing team one
brings it in one
money if I one the other first so
um I would because you have a small team
you have six people right six or seven
people right so um I think that the best
from what I see the law firms that make
the most money are exceptional promoters
especially in the transactional space
which you're in um and so I would hire
an exceptional agency that has a proven
track record and I would study
everything they do have you read the
agency's chapter in leads book I read
that chapter so it literally does like
this is how I do this is how I learn
marketing so I go to agencies and I say
hey um and I like agencies uh most times
more than the coaching world because
agencies have to produce result or they
get fired um and so I go to agencies
ideally ones that have I get from
referrals and then I tell them I want to
steal everything that you have but I
will do it over a longer period of time
because it'll take me time to learn and
I will compensate you for the difference
so your normal people probably turn out
at you know month three or four it'll
probably take me longer than that so
you'll pay more I'll pay more there and
then after I do kind of absorb what
you're doing um I'll pay you a
Consulting period after that to make
sure I can troubles so you'll make
more LTV than than a normal customer but
I'll do that in exchange that I want you
to show me what you're doing this is how
I've learned every platform I just pay
someone
more okay because the agency I have
right now is there's no transparency
they money and they give right and
that's why at the onset read the chapter
I literally have a script in there what
you say to the person uh and if they say
no then you go to another agency and you
read the script again okay that's what I
do the answer is agency if I were in
your position and I had six employees I
would rather learn it because in order
for you to succeed at the level I think
you want to succeed at you've got to
know the stuff hey so first I just want
to say thank
you you're
welcome my last business was an early
childhood education shared services
startup I built it from concept to fully
funded $32 million awesome and then
scaled from just to 133 staff people in
18 months awesome so thank you and I
left it because I made a community
decision to incubate it at another
nonprofit but I was not the owner okay
so I built it for them weird now I help
career women I made them a shitload of
money it made them
a so happy so now I help career women
prod themselves so that they can become
sols or ear startup Founders Co my
question here is around your Calculus
for Speed because for me I had nine
months to take very disal stakeholders
pull them together make concept 18 mons
of
diligence now I building a do like the
person so my around speed exactly you
shared earlier the temperature that
entrepreneurs are comfortable with has
been hard for me to calibrate especially
because we do you feel like you're going
too fast or too slow I think I'm going
too slow and my brain you know what's
weird is that I I have I have yet to
meet an entrepreneur who says that
they're going too slow you're the only
one every other entrepreneur is like I'm
going way too fast um things are just
happening so fast around me um I'm
joking um no entrepreneur says that
everyone's like this should have been
done seven years ago like why is this
taking so long like I can do this in 5
seconds why does it take you five years
um so so I think first off it's normal
um but let's chunk down a level what
specifically do you feel like is not
happening fast enough so think about it
from inputs and outputs outputs I don't
care about outputs outputs occur Revenue
occurs profit occurs as a result of
inputs and so what inputs are not
happening fast enough so to me it's the
equation of cash flow and closing my
learning Gap so for example I have been
like oh I am the sales and and all these
things which have required me to close
my learning Gap I would prefer to hire
someone to like build out the sales team
but you don't have cash flow yet
yeah so when you start so this okay so
was was the other thing funded that you
did yes okay so this is really cool for
everybody this is a great meta concept
so every single business on planet Earth
incurs debt from the day it starts it's
just that the nature of the debt is
different so if you're bootstrap you
start with leadership debt management
debt technical debt you incur all these
different types of debt if you're
venture-backed for example you incur
financial debt but you you can spend the
money to get the CRM day one you can
spend the money to get the executive
team day one and so you incur less
financial debt less technical debt less
of all these things but then you got to
pay back the financial debt or you just
slice down the pi so you have a much
smaller slice and so um whenever you
trade like you have there's there's
trade-offs between the types of debt
that you choose to incur and so
bootstrap businesses in general take
longer to grow because you have the
issue that you have right now just that
you have to keep stockpiling and you
usually have to work double time because
you have to do today's job and
tomorrow's job in order to generate
basically you do two or three jobs to
generate the cash flow from the savings
of not paying someone else to do that
job to be able to afford to pay the
person to do the job that then levels
you up to the next job that you can take
over that pays even better and so that's
fundamentally the cycle of a
bootstrapped entrepreneur and so I don't
think that you're going too slow it
feels slow because you were used to
jetpacks that were artificial no just
being real like if you're like I've got
10 million bucks let's go it's a very
different starting block right like
businesses that I can grow now I'll just
I can just fund them to start and that's
where you get real leverage because you
get the best of both because then you
have the capital you can start like your
Venture backed but you're the
venture-backed company and so you can
start with all the leadership in place
get all the consultants in so that you
can get the Tex you know Tech stack and
all that stuff and you can pay for the
Enterprise savings for a year ahead of
time and you can do all that stuff and
not dilute down but then the company
owes me money but I own the company so
whatever right and I know I'm going to
get a good returnal capital and so
fundamentally does that help everybody
in terms of thinking about this from a
speed perspective like venture-backed
companies go faster because they cheat
from like the nature of business is like
they start with a ton of money and they
can spend it for money they didn't make
bootstrap you have to make every dollar
that you spend but I think that
long-term bootstrap
businesses are the most fundamentally
sound um I won't even get too much into
that cuz I'll just stop there all tldr
is you're going slow because you
comparing it to a venture back
company I will say that was a public
private partnership that was grunding so
we also didn't have the pressure of like
we had social outcomes too yeah you
didn't even have like you didn't even
have like revenue or profit goals you
had even hit so you had like outside
money you didn't you weren't accountable
for any Financial metrics and you could
just hire people like yeah that's like
literally the opposite of a bootstrap
business and so like it's unsurprising
that it feels
different next H will be someone in the
content space and then sales how much in
cash reserves do you think I should have
before I bring on somebody who's
make so this will be good for
everybody the rate at which you hire is
actually a risk question kind of like we
were talking about earlier and so this
is where I made a tweet the other day
was like your lifestyle is your
competitor's opportunity which is the
amount that you require to live on in
distributions is what you can't reinvest
in the business but there's no perfect
answer for that if you have a family
with kids like we were talking about
earlier then I don't see that as bad
it's just that if somebody else you're
competing against doesn't have a family
and kids and reinvests all that money
then they're going to beat you but you
might not care CU you might not be in a
business where there's a network effect
that like it's a Ras to the top very few
businesses are that way like if you're
trying to build Facebook then yeah you
probably want to reinvest everything if
you're trying to build a dry cleaning
store probably doesn't matter and So
within the context of your business I
doubt that there are network effects
that are going to like kick in at any
time reasonable and if you did you need
Venture backing to get there in time
anyway so let's just not get into that
um and so the time that you choose to
hire that person is basically based on
the risk that you're comfortable with
dealing knowing like if you know that
the business is going to continue to
grow then you're just you're just
dragging the growth forward
but you're sacrificing your paycheck so
you can pay somebody else so they can
drag that growth forward and so it's a
like the entrepreneurs dilemma is
consumption verse investment as when do
I start getting payday and it really
just depends on you all right so we're
we're kind of new in that process and
I'm trying to trust the process based
off a lot of your content
videos to try to make it short I feel
like I'm I'm at a casino three black
tables first agency sucked I go the next
dealer they sucked I go to the next
dealer
but I have faith um so we're a company
that that's driven most of our business
most Blind Faith yeah most of our most
of our business based off of uh just
organic networking in person cool um
just trying to figure out like a formula
or how to determine a budget what do you
sell ads what do you sell uh Roofing and
windows okay got it helpful
um yeah I mean you most guys who
succeeded that are either doing outbound
one they have referral Partners so they
have other businesses that are
tangential to Windows and Roofing that
go into customers homes this is other
Home Services businesses and they set up
good Kickbacks for those sales reps and
those people at those businesses or it's
usually PPC driven or or social driven
so those are kind of like the four most
common besides word of mouth right um
that people Ed to grow those businesses
because we have home services that come
through all the time so very familiar
with the the model um
so the issue that you're having just so
I'm can restate the problem is that
you've tried three agencies and they
have not produced results so when you
say they haven't produced results did
they not produce leads or the leads
sucked uh both difference both uh yeah
okay now so of the ones that produce
leads what was the problem with the
leads not relevant said that uh they
they didn't fill out the forms or they
they don't know why we contracted them
some oh a home uhhuh okay a home
yeah so
um the the crappy part with the agency
Gambit especially if you don't know what
you're doing is that like you end up
getting burned but it's one of those
things where like you're not going to
quit right and so it's kind of like
agencies didn't work for us it's like
well there's obviously agencies that are
in home services that do great and so um
like path one is you just keep find you
keep going until you find an agency and
when you talk to them you're like hey
if I don't see results in 30 days I'm
out but if I do I'll keep paying you for
a very long time and also ask them for
their best practices because if an
agency does not give you best practices
they suck so just give you as a warning
so the best agencies will be like okay
this is the funnel that the leads are
coming in on this is the offer they're
seeing the people who see the most
success call leads within 5 minutes this
is the script they use this is how they
maximiz show UPS blah blah blah blah
blah so they're going to give you their
kind of like best system and some of
them will also just work the leads for
you because business owners in general
suck at working leads and so like if
you're not getting an agency that's even
talking that lingo then I would say that
that would be a that would be a red flag
so just use that as like at least filter
number one um but in terms of like how I
would probably approach that business it
would be going to tangential so it's
like carpet cleaning and Landscaping and
other Home Services where people are in
those on a regular basis and they see
the you know they see the the roof and
the windows on a regular it's like hey
I'll give you a thousand bucks or
whatever you know whatever your referral
fee could be and so what's your cost you
require customer right
now that's another constraint our
numbers okay well how much do you make
from a customer on
average uh 8,000 Okay cool so you could
pay a grand for a customer and be happy
with it is that margin 8,000 or
Revenue okay great yeah so then yeah if
you give landscapers a th000 bucks a
referr referral they will beg borrow and
steal to get you referrals and so
obviously that's a very different
strategy for acquisition if I were in
your shoes fastest easiest path is look
for an agency that follows those check
marks and I don't know how your buying
process went but I would recommend also
reading the agency chapter in case you
read it um but like talk to 10 of them
before you buy like actually talk to 10
sounds crazy I think that's been a
problem is just dating two people and
choosing one yeah yeah like date more
than one it's like I got a crazy chick
and a fat chick you're like ah you
know you know so like whatever so like
just you know like open the pool of who
you can pick from right so that's that's
kind of where I would where I would go
with that does that make sense so just
open the selection up and then I will
promise you this by the time this is
when you know you can pick so I'll give
you the limus test is when you stop
learning things on the call so you talk
to the first guy
and you're like okay that's a lot of new
information thanks for that we'll be
back to you talk to the second guy he
mentions more new stuff for me it takes
me about 15 calls with experts to really
wrap my head around a space and so
that's like kind of like my litmus test
so once I start like being able to say
like but what about this and what about
this consideration and they're like oh
he's a more knowledgeable consumer and
like I can start talking their lingo um
that's how I know I can make an informed
decision so you've been making
uninformed decisions and because of that
been getting bad results which is not
surprising I me no insult
to the the women in the room just just a
hypothetical in a business like mine I
feel like I've watched your content and
I've tried to implement on the things
but I feel like it's hard to put it into
the things you say because it's a little
bit different I do a business loans and
it's very cash heavy up front um and
right now I've realized that constraint
is uh getting new clients and finding a
method that works so I can kind of scale
that okay how do you get clients
now so it's referrals from previous
clients great and so you've done a good
job what's the average loan sorry
average loan Aver loan uh right now
probably be around 7,000 say okay so
this is like credit card stuff sorry is
like credit card stuff or is this uh
like loan loans loan loans interesting
low ticket okay not there's definitely
higher ones but usually to start off we
like to start small and people build up
their credit yeah yeah um and so you
need more customers need more customers
and need a way to figure out how to
scale that we've plateaued and um the
good thing about it is we've kind of
like built up some money in the bank
where we can allow ourselves to maybe do
advertising or you know I've heard
people said
toach so for that business I would prob
especially the ticket price you're at I
would probably go um ads or referral
Partners so those would be the those
would be the two channels that I would
see as like the most likely to succeed
with that
yeah sneeze of the sneeze of the of the
event
uh I just want to sneeze like that and
just like see what people do um anyways
so uh ads or I would do the referral
Partners um and so referral Partners
would be like okay well who else is
dealing with these particular types of
customers so it might be the credit
repair companies and saying like I'm
sure they have almost all those guys
referr out business and so making your
referral
mechanism more valuable than other
people's um that would be a big one
because if you can the way that you can
win there is if you convert a higher
percentage of their customers than other
people do then you'll be able to pay
them
more because a lot of people waste leads
and there's plenty of companies that
just like send the leads don't even ask
for anything back and so you can be more
aggressive on the acquisition to them
you're like hey I can extend your LTV if
you just like once you finish like
repairing credit I can get them a bigger
loan and I can pay
you and so getting a handful of those
referral Partners could be Mass massive
for the business that's like you rely on
some other people but it could scale
pretty quickly and it's cheap or at
least it's low risk how do you go about
that's where you do
Outreach so you do Outreach to get
Affiliates and then the Affiliates send
you business then you can be more
targeted do that make sense because if
you do Outreach then it's like what's
the cost to acquire a customer the
metrics there might be pretty tight for
you if you're doing $7,000 loans I don't
know what you make on a $7,000 loan so
we're trying to get uh higher what do
you make on a loan with
$7,000 um
generally 1,500 2,000 okay it just
depends like yeah understood so with
like $1,500 $2,000 of gross profit it's
tight it's very tight for outbound and
so like you it's you'd want more margin
if you could and so that's why you're
like okay well I'll go to an affiliate
and maybe it cost me 10 grand to acquire
an affiliate but then affiliate is going
to send me 20 customers a month and so
it cost me 10 to make 4 ,000 a month and
then the metrics make amazing sense
sorry just last and if we're so I have a
few clients where I have been able to
get to like the higher amount where I'm
loaning maybe 50,000 100,000 like stuff
like that and so we have like maybe
three or four of those how would I be
able to maybe reach those like bigger
ones so I can you know not have to worry
about ads in referral partners that
would be and if you have referral
Partners you tell them who you're
looking for we specialize in people with
50 ,000 RS are
higher if that's I mean like you just
tell them what you want and then you can
pay them even fatter slices so they
might be interested in that